% GETPATH(1) getpath | User Commands

# NAME

**getpath** — get paths based on keycodes


# SYNOPSIS

| **getpath** \[OPTION...\] \[KEYCODE...\]
| **getpath** -e \[OPTION...\] \[KEYCODE...\] \[VARNAME\] \[EXITCODE\]? \[ERRMSG\]?


# DESCRIPTION

Get paths based on keycodes from databases generated by `genpath(1)`.

EXITCODE and ERRMSG are optional and respectively default to 1 and NULL. Unless
-b is given, the first match of -f and -d in that order is output. At least one
of -df must be given. Only the last occurrence of any of -nsu is considered. By
default, -n is selected.


# OPTIONS

## Generic

-h
:   display help dialog and exit

## Search Modes

-b
:   if -d and -f are given, output both if matched

-d
:   search directory database

-f
:   search file database

## Safety Modes

-n
:   select normal mode: create parent elements of the path

-s
:   select safe mode: create all elements of the path

-u
:   select unsafe mode: create none of the elements of the path

## General Output Control

-e
:   make output `eval`able by a POSIX-compatible shell

-z
:   line delimiter is NUL, not newline

-0
:   line delimiter is NUL, not newline


# FILES

`$PREFIX/scripts/pathfinding/files-container/`

:   File database.

`$PREFIX/scripts/pathfinding/directories-container/`

:   Directory database.

See ENVIRONMENT section for `$PREFIX`


# ENVIRONMENT

## Config Home

`$PREFIX` is set to the first set entry from the following list.

1. `$GETPATH_CONFIG_HOME`
2. `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME`
3. `$HOME/.config`, if `$HOME` is not set, the home directory is queried via
   `getpwuid(getuid())->pw_dir`


# AUTHOR

Berke Kocaoğlu <berke.kocaoglu@metu.edu.tr>


# BUGS & ISSUES

Report at <https://github.com/XPhyro/scripts/issues> or
<https://codeberg.org/XPhyro/scripts/issues>.


# COPYRIGHT

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2020-2022 Berke Kocaoğlu

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


# SEE ALSO

**genpath(1)**, **getpwuid(3)**, **getuid(3)**
